---
layout: post
title: 'About: My first post'
date: 2019-03-16T17:18:01.867Z
feature_image: /assets/uploads/82cfc2f0f7c5587b81810cacccfef718.jpg
categories: Philosophy
---
Za każdym razem gdy jestem w dołku wracam do tego artykułu . Za każdym razem nie mogę się nadziwić, że to ja go napisałam. Za każdym razem przypomina mi co jest ważne, i że życie jest nieskończona sinusoidą gdzie żeby mieć z górki trzeba popedałować pod górę. A czasem w tym rajdzie dobrze jest po prostu się zatrzymać i popodziwiać widoki. 

Zwłaszcza teraz w momencie ogromnych zmian w moim życiu nabiera dla mnie nowego znaczenia. Tęskniąc za Paryżem i zakochując się na nowo w Szczecinie zastanawiam się czy to ciągle ja...



Everytime I feel down I come back to this article. Everytime I can't believe that it was me who wrote it. Everytime it reminds me what is important and that life is never ending flux when to go down hill fist you need to peddle uphill. But sometimes in this crazy race it is good to stop and enjoy the view.

And especially now when I'm going through some major changes in my life it has a new meaning for me. Missing Paris, falling in love with Szczecin I wonder is it still me...

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

The idea of writing an article for "Happiness" magazine was very tempting. For years, with friends we have been conducting philosophical discussions on various topics as a hobby. And for months now I've been shedding my thoughts onto paper, writing rather for myself and only on topics that currently interest me. The new issue of the Happiness was therefore an ideal opportunity to test myself, face a new challenge and write a text about the subject proposed. A simple and difficult subject at the same time: the success with Paris in the background.

Surprisingly, having to write about success, I felt into some kind of small panic. First of all, because of instilled modesty, “how can I write about success”? After all, I did not fly into space, I did not invent a cure for cancer or brought peace in the world. To talk about success it would be useful to have at least a few millions earned or a Porsche in the garage - which I can not boast of either. Secondly, is my success the one which is written with capital “S”? The one about which we like to listen and read? The one from the covers of glossy magazines? And the magazine covers are the most adequate here because professionally, as a photographer, I’m partially responsible for creation of these covers. They are considered the best barometer of success in the industry, the Holy Grail. When my mind finally shook off the cultural habit of belittling oneself (because you have to be modest), I started to think more soberly. I paused for a moment and realized that yes, indeed I can write about it. In fact, each of us can write a story of ones success and fulfillment. Everyone can!

It began with the fact that at some point in my life I made a bold decision and with one suitcase, without knowledge of the language, I went abroad. Like the beginning of some American movie. As everyone knows life is not like in the movies, so the start was rather bumpy with many ups and downs. But ultimately my "conquering" of Paris, because that's where I went, was quite successful. I was doing what was fascinating for me, commissions multiplied and I gained recognition and economic gratification. I have heard that other people dream of a life like mine. And whats more, it was a life I dreamed about myself few years ago. Like yuppie on the very fast way to a great career.



And I just can not forget the moment when being in the center of this speeding dream machine, I was standing in my parisian apartment. Crying. Tired and resigned, I looked at my partner and I asked him "what is this all for?".The memory is still vivid, as if it happened yesterday, and it is a memento whenever I start to get lost.



Why was I struggling for goals and life of which I wasn’t even sure I wanted? Do we really live a myth so old, that hardly anyone ever tries to neglect it? After all, the concepts of success, career, happiness and fulfillment are central concepts in our culture. It has been established that being an expert in a certain field brings happiness and adds value to a man. The conviction that a good life equals a home, a car, having a family and children, a job and achievements, some money for a holidays twice a year – it is a common belief in our society. Only this nagging doubt in the back of my head still remains. Who has defined good life and happiness this way? And will it be the same for everyone?



Why do I need “success” which does not emancipate but instead makes me a prisoner. Prisoner, you ask? Yes. There will always be someone better and worse than me. There will always be something greater to achieve. You can always do more, do better and faster. In this way we fall into the vicious circle of promise. A promise that I'm almost there; I can almost touch it, it's almost within my reach, just one last effort, and then I can rest. Our goal is always close and yet beyond our reach. And we run faster and faster, wanting more and more. We accelerate till we dash with the speed of light and what is most important, begins to fade. We sacrifice our precious time, health, and sometimes the loved ones, focusing on a vague goal, which even we did not set for ourselves. The goal has been programmed into us through the media, culture, society in which we live. From fatigue we stop questioning whether the highway we are driving is going towards our heaven. We are not happy where we are but we hope that we will be once - only later, elsewhere, as soon as we achieve this or that.



Goals, big plans, desires for something better, bigger, the sense of being important brings only temporal satisfaction and leaves us hungry. When we move too fast, we stop noticing what we already have and we focus only on what we’re missing. And we have so much! More than kings and queens from ages ago. Have you ever thought about it? When I realized that, I could not stop laughing. But once we get some symbols of social status, we become a prisoner of fear. Because what if I lose all of these I worked so hard for? The fear begins to dictate our lives and it is really hard to stop.



It was at this point that I was leaning against a kitchen counter and crying. When I decided to leave. Consciously, but anxiously, I said "stop" to work, struggle for status, commissions, career and life according to someone else’s rules. I stopped and tried to understand what I really want. Who in fact am I and am I still someone outside of professional life? And to my surprise, my world did not collapse and more perspectives opened up for me. It was as simple as to stop, even for a moment, sometimes for a few ones. Not necessarily in order to change the world but at least to choose a better fit for me, for us. When the world stands still, you can finally look around and appreciate its beauty, simplicity and understand what gives you satisfaction and a sense of harmony.

As of today, this is my greatest "success". The fact that I stopped, looked around and instead of putting up a sign of equality between achievements and human values, I began to derive joy and peace from what I already have. The fact that I am healthy, I have a roof over my head or food on a plate. The fact that I can go for a walk and shuffle autumn leaves with my legs, not rushing to anywhere, look at 6 o'clock at sunrise and have time to write this text...that’s nothing big but that’s enough. 



It does not mean that I stopped working. Now I just work on my terms, along with my inner beliefs and pace. Without as many mental compromises as before. I'm still able to lose myself in photography and get absorbed with a new project. I still work and my work satisfies me, but it does not defines who I am. After all, without Paris, without career, without achievements and aspirations, it is still me.
